so the first thing is that I think the
biggest problem is that we were led to
believe something that is actually
incorrect and so I think the real
challenge here is that we've had to
figure out and I don't think anyone has
really I mean we're doing this but I
don't think anyone has I don't think
many people stop and really think a
little bit about the fact that we have
to find our own way forward in this
we're not going to find an answer from
somewhere else because those answers
just don't work anymore
why don't we start to somebody want to
just tell us a little bit about who you
are and and what we can help you with
today on stream like what you go by who
wants to start okay I'll start
I basically volunteer okay I'm straight
cut okay I'm very nervous because I have
social anxiety so this is rough for me
to say the least
yeah well props for you for being here
and in social anxiety can be crippling
and terrifying yeah definitely so we'll
we'll see if we can sort of think about
that as we kind of continue and just pay
attention to what your social anxiety is
doing we'll see if we can help so
welcome stray cat thank you
my name is ruin and ruin and I was
moniker to do her so I was invited on
here I'm not quite sure exactly what you
can help me with but I'm happy to be
here man okay cool well I'm happy to
have you here and I also don't know how
I can help you and also don't know what
a Doomer is so we'll get to that in a
second let's finish to a B maybe we can
learn and maybe we can learn that let's
keep going with introductions okay I
guess I can go so mimes ill so like I
think I'm like a tumor because when I
did like read about read up about
Buddhism I learned about mu within Zen
Buddhism and talks about like nothing
and like that kind of sort of like
changed my perspective on things and so
like nothing is there I always say like
nothing is everything everything is
nothing okay and I always have like
other problems like sort of like bubble
up as a as it relates to being a Doomer
so okay I'm interested just to like
learn about things today okay awesome
and welcome Zil can you tell us a little
bit okay I'm just a little bit curious
what kind of other bobble Bobble
problems do you think bubble up from mu
yeah so like my my relation to friends
like I I don't I don't see myself as
having like a best friend okay and like
saw relationships I always like I I feel
like as if because I don't need to have
like a special someone I treat everyone
sort of like as special like everyone is
special to me it's type of deal right
okay and it's like a certain way it's a
it's a weird thing that like that I have
to like think about but yeah and that
ice you that makes you a du mer well
it's like I can't have like a special
someone right like like though like the
one I feel like you know because I'm a
everyone I see so so because you treat
everyone as special no no one person can
be special yeah okay okay that's helpful
thank you very much for explaining that
let's get the other the remaining two
people can you please introduce yourself
yeah I'm an SE at sama do me because
many aspects in life I feel like I'm
doomed to fail like education
relationship I'm isolated quite alone
most of the time stuff like that I'll
say okay social anxiety and depression a
lot of the time so yeah it all feeds
into a feeling of isolation and
hopelessness okay a lot of thinking that
in the near future I'll probably be just
the lone sort of in the near future just
in the future in general okay I I may
ask a little bit more about why I use
the word near there for a second but we
can you know thanks for introducing
yourself in Aussie and I think we have
one more introduction hi so I go by
Lotus I was also monitored as a Doomer
so that's why I've been invited onto the
stream today okay um I guess my main
thing and why I would actually kind of
associate with being a dimmer and it's
that
I've I'm still fairly young I'm 21 but
I've a seemingly failed over and over
again
ever since my senior years in high
school where it's just kind of I stopped
giving a [ __ ] about a lot of things in
life and I even told myself that over
and over again until it clearly became
apparent that that I can't live with
that attitude as a cook or going into
higher education which I actually fully
was drew from last term okay okay so
thanks a lot for sharing that intro
Lotus so let's just start with with this
because I'm you know I'm behind the
times so what's a Doomer mmm Zil what
you got okay your time out this earlier
we're trying to pin this one down with
Moses and it was tough it's a tough one
yeah so I guess like my like there's a
video on a Doomer and like I resonate
with it and in the video it said like
for adieu Marie right they believe like
all the external [ __ ] like like their
walls gonna [ __ ] and so therefore it's
like why like we're gonna suffer no
matter what because like the world is
[ __ ] and like we have to contrast and do
it with like the Boomer it's like the
Boomers like oh like if the world's
gonna [ __ ] right pull yourself up by the
bootstraps whereas the doom would be
like no you [ __ ] y'all [ __ ] it up for
us like what can we do now so like
that's sort of like there's like
external factors that sort of like
influence the way that we sort of like
be in the world I think there's like I
think there's a dichotomy between like
the way that boomers a boomers are
basically just modernism and then do
Murs are post-modernism I think is the
best way to look at it what does that
mean
meaning like this idea of truth with
like boomers saw you have to work for
truth and you have to you have to sort
of find your own variant of that and
then I think do Murs basically
acknowledge that there really isn't any
and your everything is kind of
meaningless and
that affects a lot of people in our
generation I think it affects most of
our generation like my generation being
like I don't know like 18 but like 25
kind of in that span but it affects some
people I think negatively because they
have other [ __ ] and their past or they
have things are dealing with
psychologically that make that lack of
meaning really oppressive to them
okay so man so you guys know I touch my
face a lot when I'm streaming because I
think and I have to stop touching my
face because of kovat it's a very hard
okay so so I'm just trying to understand
is so first of all like anyone else on
the call I want to add what they believe
a Doomer is or do you guys think we've
sort of captured it no I think it's
about right okay
stray cat do you sort of identify with
certain features of what people have
been talking about definitely like just
lack of direction and just lack of
meaning really okay all right so let me
I understand this okay so the world so
and then we're gonna start to like
understand a little bit about how this
stuff works so let's just try to
understand the relationship between
different pieces the first is that the
assumption that the world is [ __ ]
right that's like where this starts from
and and so what I'm hearing is that like
since the world is [ __ ] that's what
leads to suffering or the stuff like
where does how does suffering relate to
the status of the world for you guys
like when you think about your life
where does your suffering come from does
it come from
your circumstances and that your
circumstances are unchangeable that's a
tough question I think I tend to put a
lot of my suffering on myself like they
were it was my responsibility I'm not
sure if that's a Doomer thing or a me
thing you know so let's think about that
right so I'm gonna just point out what I
heard from you guys that the world is
[ __ ] and therefore they're suffering or
there's some tie between you know when
you guys were talking about a boom or a
Boomer believes that in spite of
circumstances it is possible to continue
to achieve by lifting yourself up
through your bootstraps right so like
what you're capable of as an individual
outweighs what the world the challenges
the world offers so you can overcome
challenges
whereas what I'm hearing is different
about a Doomer is that you don't like
it's kind of assumed that like there's
gonna be like you're you're kind of
hopeless and there's nothing you can do
because the world is going to hell in a
handbasket and and so I'm still a little
bit confused does that mean that the
suffering comes from the world because
it's so bleak that no matter what you do
the world is like you're just not going
to be successful
so in roons case he sort of places a lot
of the blame on himself but I think that
lack of success is inevitable just the
same way but okay fine
inevitable sure but why is it inevitable
I'm curious what other people say who
think like or do you guys think that
your failures because the world basic
is screwed or do you blame yourselves
definitely play myself more than the
world okay so if I think I was another
person
I think I'd succeed in a lot of
different aspects better than I
currently do okay with like being on
myself but I think a lot of that is the
social anxiety like I know I shouldn't
blame myself for social anxiety but I
feel like people like me
aren't treated well like stigma is a
huge thing with people with mental
illness and I feel like if I went out
and tried a lot of people wouldn't look
at it very fairly okay um this may sound
like a silly question stray cat but why
shouldn't you blame yourself for having
social anxiety uh because it's not
really part of who I am or what I am
doing to myself maybe okay so it's
something that's outside of your control
it's not a choice yeah okay and and zil
what do you think do you blame yourself
for your situation in life or do you
blame the outside world it's complicated
because it's like yeah I recognize that
it's the outside world that's so it's
like there are these variables that you
can't they're like independent that you
can't influence but I can't influence
the relation to those variables but
despite of that relationship is always
feel as if there's always like something
pushing me down so that's why I feel as
if it's like kind of both external but
also like I could have done something
but something just pushes me down so I
can't okay I'm really curious to how
many people feel like like Zil they can
relate to Zil saying like when you try
something pushes you down yeah
definitely yeah yeah I agree that I feel
like I'm just pushing myself down and
that's why I kept feeling okay yeah I
mean I think
out of everything that you guys have
said I think the image of you trying and
being knocked down again and again and
again is sort of like what I'm feeling
the most from is is that how you feel
yeah and so what what is it that knocks
you down usually it's different every
time
it's complicated pretty quickly okay
does somebody want to share an example
of you know when they tried to do
something and how life cut yeah actually
I'm gonna go I tried doing therapy
multiple times like different therapists
I don't know if you know Sara P works in
Canada it's free like but it's not the
best if you're not paying you basically
just get chosen someone and you have to
wait like months between and yeah I
tried like I think with almost ten
different therapists oh my god and yeah
I kept trying and trying and I don't
know like no one really helped or like a
lot of them didn't even do anything for
me they just told me to go on drugs
interesting
so I think that's a great example of you
like really gave it you know ten chances
like ten tries salata tries right that's
that's not like giving up after like you
know something doesn't go your way once
like ten is a lot and and for all ten of
those experiences it sounds like all of
them were were not really helpful uh I
did find one and she was a good
therapist but she stopped practicing
so that's Doomer right there okay you
find the one person that can help you
and they're like yeah I'm quitting okay
yeah I mean that makes sense right so
it's like when when you I think it like
Zil was saying like when you try to make
a change in your life life sort of says
[ __ ] you
and then no yeah and then pushes you
back down okay that was very helpful
does anybody else want to share like an
experience where they tried to you know
move forward in life and in life kind of
didn't let that happen I think mine a
big one for me is like education okay
I ever since school it's always been 40
percent 50 percents no matter how hard I
try study and stuff like that and I just
keep failing really and when I go sit
down to study I struggle to study
because just for many reasons really and
I just feel hopeless and sometimes it
just results in may not trying in some
cases okay cuz what the outcomes gonna
be already I just don't ever do well you
know what the outcome is gonna be
already yeah how many of you feel like
when you when you think about trying
something you know what the outcome is
gonna be
yeah what do you mean by rehearse it in
your head like I feel like I go through
scenarios like of what's gonna happen
before it actually happens okay you guys
do that yeah
yeah I like running simulations China's
like like models right in your head yeah
like your brains like a computer so you
run models and try figure out what's
gonna happen
okay
effect if any does running those
computer simulation models have in your
mind it's never a good one what what
effect is it what's something I'm trying
to prepare for whatever is gonna happen
but I end up just making myself anxious
and nervous and not wanting to do it
okay
so it sounds like the more simulations
you run you've noticed a correlation
between the more simulations you run the
worse you perform yeah what do you guys
think yeah I think it just justifies it
makes you scared of what you're gonna do
before it happens and then it sort of
becomes true because of that it becomes
a self-fulfilling prophecy yeah you know
okay so you're you're telling me and I
see that the that the more you kind of
think about things it's sort of full it
becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy so
it's almost like your failure is
inevitable like the more you worry about
it yeah guys agree or disagree I agree
yeah yeah okay yeah like that that
framing like I can agree with and like I
resonate a lot with the with a nasty is
like trying like I'm always sort of like
trying right I like and I tried it sort
of like don't have an expectations just
try and see if it works or not but it's
always like life [ __ ] slaps me in the
face whenever I try it's like nope
like there's this variable that you
didn't count for even though you tried
you're [ __ ] out of luck
does life feel abusive to you guys it
can like I'm empty like do you guys does
it feel to you like life is almost like
a malicious force specifically I think
it feels like there's a certain
idealistic version of what I would
really like and then there's a like a
huge difference between what I would
like and what I want to achieve versus
what I'm actually living and in a way
that can kind of feel abusive as like
it's more extreme okay so a gap between
truth and fantasy a bit okay Anna sees a
has implications I don't like but maybe
that's kind of the point
the life that you want to achieve yeah
what would you call that
yeah fantasy I mean would you it sounds
like fantasy is not the right word no I
think I just said that so slightly
uncomfortable with the conversation but
that doesn't mean it's not the right
what connotation were you uncomfortable
the person kind of just living and some
conjured Disney World of theirs is that
make sense yeah sure is that what you do
no I don't think I do that completely
okay so it's not going to I think
everyone does it a little bit sure so it
sounds like fantasy is not the right
word so what is the right word rune
hmm I can't think of a better one huh so
let's let's help let's help roon out
like when you guys think about the life
that you could live do you do you think
fantasy is the right word or do you
think it's something else that's or to
call it a dream okay what do you mean by
dream is like a dream something that you
strive to achieve our dream is like the
state of consciousness when you go to
sleep and you can fly and you have the
head of a horse sawing I strive to
achieve but I feel in my case sewing
that I'll never have at the same time
okay so let's talk a little bit about
what is it that you guys want to achieve
what is that what is the world that you
want look like just living comfortably
with a comfortable job and people that
you know around you okay what is living
comfortably me mean you know worry about
stuff like finances or so financials get
ya rid yourself of worries in general
rid yourself of worries what other
worries are there just like anxiety
going to places stuff like that anxiety
going to places what else I'd say
depression is part of that what does
that mean depression can you help us
understand that and I see just feeling
down a little the time and I guess
isolated in my case as well okay I enjoy
being with others a lot of the time but
I don't really get that opportunity what
keeps you from having that opportunity
oh I would probably say other people
have left me but I know for sure it's
just me not going out of my own way to
meet people and stuff like that
can anybody help me understand what an
Aussie just said he said I I would say
that it's other people leaving me but I
know for sure it's it's me not going out
of my way
so like I'm confused about who's
responsible for his situation what do
you guys think so fear of putting
yourself out and being vulnerable with
other people okay what do you guys think
about other people leaving him does that
happen to you
okay confused on what the thing about
that because in high school I had to
leave one of my best friends to then
sort of join my other best friend I was
sort of like in a group of friends and I
was the kid in the middle and I had to
choose one or the other
hmm and how did you choose well the
reason they split up in the first place
was that one of them was kind of being
an [ __ ] so then I had a friend just
stopped hanging out with both of us
right so I had to figure out why that
happened in the first place okay and
then when he told me that I thought
about it for a weekend didn't I really
tell anyone I don't really tell either
of them like what the what to do about
this but um I ended up sticking with the
other friends he felt like he was being
treated poorly okay and then a few years
later he ended up ditching me in return
so a few years later he ended up
ditching you yeah he was dealing with a
lot of health issues of his own huh
okay so so what do you think is the
reason he ditched you
he mentioned loyalty which felt like a
very sort of fabricated Astra to me at
the time I feel like it wasn't the
complete truth okay do you feel like you
made the wrong choice in terms of who
you went with in terms of friendship I
don't but I feel like you ended up being
something that was slightly out of my
control
and I could have known like at the time
I don't think I could have done anything
to sort of change the circumstances sure
so I have a couple of questions for you
guys okay this is gonna sound kind of
weird so the first question is how much
sense do you think the other people in
this chat or making I think a lot
because I've had similar situations too
and so like I I think I can understand
where they're coming from I don't know
for sure but like a lot of the things
that they're describing has happened to
me so I say it like the moving from one
friend group to another because the one
friend was being an [ __ ] yeah what do
other people think do you think the
other people miss chatter kind of like
if you don't I mean if you think they're
not making sense please say so it's like
I'm not trying to frame the question for
a particular answer I'm just curious
about what y'all's
senses of whether other people are
making sense I feel like there's a lot
more that is not being said to whatever
they're saying like there's a lot of
underneath that is being kind of like
broached on through subtext and that's
it can you help me understand what the
subtext is root
I mean enough for other people for
yourself like what you're reading so
you're feeling something you're reading
something right so let's let's bring it
from subtext to like text hmm I think I
think it's just there's like this
unanimous feeling of isolation between
all of us okay
well set what do you guys think yeah
100% 100% okay so this is kind of
interesting right so my can I just share
a couple of thoughts and like you guys
have to you know guide me from here so
my first thought is that I was expecting
a bunch of people who were like I don't
know like do MERS like you guys don't
seem like do mercy like I had this idea
of a tumor as someone who is like you
know just full of cognitive bias and
like just has a view of the world that
is really really like miss shapen right
who just like thinks like like I was
expecting someone who's not gonna make
sense basically so I have this
particular view of the world and you
know I'm confident in my view of the
world and I understand it's not everyone
else's view of the world but the first
thing that I was shocked by is like how
actually like legitimate all of your
perspectives are and and I think that
you know even in as we start to like
pick things apart a little bit
I'm also very surprised and frankly
impressed by how much you guys are
willing to question some assumptions or
even Express confusion about something
that I think is actually really really
hopeful so I'll give you guys just an
example like so you know it started out
with the definition of a tumor which is
like anytime you try something the world
is a [ __ ] place so you're you're
destined to suffer but when I asked you
guys where is the origin of suffer
suffering is it because the world is
going to [ __ ] or is it your fault like
each of you is giving me sort of nuanced
and complex answers right like it's
actually kind of I mean it sort of makes
sense like if we just take what stray
cat said about therapy for example like
if you've
tried to see ten therapists and only one
of them has been helpful and the one
that was helpful
quit like it's reasonable to think that
the world is kind of a [ __ ] place and
isn't gonna help you out does that make
sense like that's not it's not that's
not depression like sometimes I work
with people who are depressed and people
who are depressed don't see the world in
a correct way
right so they think like they think
thoughts like you know my family would
be better off like my kids would be
better off without me so I should kill
myself they think thoughts like that but
what I'm really surprised by and maybe
that's a little bit of what I was
expecting what I'm surprised by is
actually how rational all of your
thoughts are you know like it's a little
bit surprising and also that when I when
I challenge some of your thoughts that
you guys are able to kind of like look
at them as in kind of a new way and then
I also think it's really awesome that
that you know you guys have kind of the
subtext here is isolation so what would
you guys say that the core of your
problem is that you're isolated for me
yes yeah definitely feels that way yeah
so okay so so great so like have you
guys thought the core of your problem is
isolation like before today
it sort of fades into my I'll be home
alone in the future sort of doomed
mentality so what is the doomed
mentality and I see mine is just the I'm
set up to fill in a lot of aspects in
life and that in years to come I'll just
be in the same spot and won't achieve
anything okay so I want to I want you
guys to just think about that for a
second and notice what he's saying right
so this is exactly what I'm hearing from
y'all is that the problems are in every
dimension of your life that's the
initial frame that you're doomed in
everything and you guys we're talking
about I think in aa see you men should
like giving forty or fifty percent at
your best in terms of Education
yeah and that other people are sort of
like we're thinking about therapy we're
thinking about isolation we're thinking
about social anxiety we're thinking
about education we're thinking about
failure we're thinking about financial
security it's like every dimension of
your life is screwed yeah that's the way
you guys pitch it at the beginning
because I think that's the way that it
feels to you in your head that
everywhere you look around it's like the
world is a bleak place and that's what a
Doomer is everywhere you look there's
darkness but what I'm actually hearing
from you guys is that this isn't
actually like sixteen problems and part
of the reason that it can feel
overwhelming is because when you look
around and you see thirty problems that
is like literally overwhelming you can't
fix thirty things you can't get a job
and get an A and get a girlfriend and
make $100,000 a year you can't do all of
those things and so the other bizarre
thing about being a Doomer apparently is
that I think your feeling of over being
overwhelmed is not like an illness I
think it's just you look around and
every part of your life seems to be like
sort of empty and bleak so you're like
well [ __ ] where do I even start
that actually is logical it's not yeah
but the interesting go ahead so like I
think so when we were looking at like
what a dimmer is just like this video
that explains it and like that's very
much what the video said it's like it's
all logical things sort of like the
house essentially like we are today or
like how today was set up from the past
right so like everything like it's not I
agree that's like a lot of things it's
not necessarily like something else but
other things like kind of like the
perfect storm when you say it was a
perfect storm
it's like these sets of such like
circumstances created this right if this
is the external world yeah yeah so that
also like I I'm a little bit confused
about because when I asked you guys like
who is ultimately responsible so I
understand the framework that you all
have laid out
I understand everything that you guys
have I mean I think I do that
the external world is problematic and
stuff like that the problem is that when
I actually ask you guys about your life
what I hear is not that the rest of the
world is a complete mess and things like
that what I hear is that I'm
fundamentally isolated like that's
that's what I'm hearing first and
foremost and also I'm hearing that it's
not that the outside world's fault it's
like my fault
I'm gonna throw an idea here and
Rosario's everyone else here agrees but
it's not so much that like all the
previous events of my life have created
this moment where now the world's going
to [ __ ] me it's more like the previous
invent my life created me which can't
succeed a version of me that can't
succeed it was isolated yeah okay so
this is excellent right so this is good
now we're getting somewhere
so so the world has turned you into the
person that you are and the person that
you are is [ __ ] yeah basically is that
a du mer huh
in a way it is okay well so help me
understand stray cat in what way are we
what are we missing I think a lot of the
time people when they say boomer they
mean someone who like looks at society
is the issue and what we said but we
kind of flip that around didn't we yes
we did
that's my point right so if we can flip
this around I wonder what else we can
flip around that's very exciting
that's a very bloomer statement no I
mean like seriously that's not I'm not
trying to so you guys know I tend to be
positive right
like I'm a positive guy but like I
didn't come in here and say like oh you
guys could turn your life around cuz I
don't actually know that I don't know
that you can maybe you guys are [ __ ]
right but but what
I think stray cat put it beautifully and
this is this is what this is actually
what's giving me hope is that by talking
about this you guys are getting a new
perspective like that's what I mean
because what y'all are describing is
fundamentally different from the picture
of a tumor and that's what stray cat is
saying is that is that it's not
necessarily the outside world and I
think what rune said makes a lot of
sense that the outside world has turned
you into the person that you are today
and the chances of the person that you
are today or bleak I'll accept that but
I still think that if you guys have been
trying from a Doomer mindset and you've
been failing from a Doomer mindset and
you change the way that you look at the
world and you change where agency and
power lie then I think that there's a
chance for you to change and it's not
about like just putting on a new mindset
like yeah like I can do it believe in
yourself like ah that does that's not
what I'm talking about I'm not saying
like adopt a new mindset just because
that's what the power of positive
thinking is I think that that's dumb I
think the question is can you
authentically look at your life
understand how you got to be this way
understand why you can't move forward
and then figure out a new strategy that
is actually authentic for you I think
that's the crux of my problem
specifically and I talked about this was
bed with rune so it's like I put
essentially like I I acknowledge all
these things and I was like okay how can
I move forward
so when we talking about like financial
security and like education right and
then like coming from and so look at the
first friction first generation
background I had my parents tell me that
like oh go to college
Oh be an engineer oh do all these things
so you have a you have a path forward so
essentially what happened was I couldn't
do what you're suggesting of like the
authentic self and put myself on
autopilot and I feel as if and this is
what the duma comes in is like if i ever
try to take control or turn autopilot
and take control everything like I'm
just gonna turn everything the [ __ ]
where's my autopilot like has sort of
paved the way for me so I don't want to
lose that kind of weight is the
autopilot a good thing or a bad thing
not for me for me chill hold on hold on
I'm asking other people what do you guys
talk about so being or Zil being on
autopilot I feel very much that I'm on
autopilot in my education as well I
think I can relate when I'm out in
public I think it's what gets me through
like that moment in time so what do you
guys think about zil's fear of going off
of autopilot
I think he's sorry go ahead go Fortran
oh okay I'm just gonna say I think he's
probably because I don't I'm never on
autopilot I really am very I mean I say
that everyone because I'm not on point
sometimes but often times I try not to
be and I think it has given me a lot of
opportunities through virtue of like
effort that being another poet wouldn't
have given me what do you think about
and I'm sorry somebody else wanted to
say something yeah my autopilot sort of
just doing what I've always been doing
in uni and not really straying from that
and being pushed by my parents to do the
same sort of stuff like an education I
just sort of follow that I I don't know
if I always give my all but that's sort
of why it just sounds like you never
give your all
possibly you're the one who said like at
best I give 50% your words on uh
sometimes I try but let's like all I get
out of it in okay salts okay important
distinction okay what do you guys think
about zil's being afraid to turn off
autopilot that's the reason I'm still
doing my uni course and stuff otherwise
I might have ventured off and tried
other thing Lotus I haven't heard you
speak up in a little bit anything that
you want to add you don't have to I'm
just I would like to give you a chance
to talk if I can I can really kind of
because um I grew up with four
generation parents as well and then I
was actually born in Canada but they
never really put me into autopilot
I can't just went with the flow
throughout all my life and then I became
sort of either heavily attached or
addicted to gaming or just being on my
computer and for me that's my autopilot
right actually taking time to cook or to
exercise or so just even in like walk
outside is already a challenge sometimes
depending on how I feel okay can I just
think for a second yep how do you guys
think this is going by the way it's a
little over the place yep anyone else
feel that way
we can still tie it all together though
yeah yeah like like yeah like we can all
tie
yeah you can always like loop it back
you know because like I think we because
you said that like it feels as if like
everything like everything is sort of
like feels overwhelming so like because
of if we feel like it's everything then
somehow it will all tie back together
yeah so I mean would you guys say that
this conversation is almost like a
reflection of what your life feels like
yeah yeah yeah neat how that happens huh
right so like IIIi think stray cat
that's an excellent observation so I too
feel like it's kind of all over the
place I feel like we're talking about a
lot of different things I'm not quite
sure if we've made progress so that's
why I'm asking for a few minutes to kind
of stop and think and and try to figure
out like how can we put some of this
together in a meaningful way okay yeah
one more minute yeah I'm just not sure
how to answer that
because I feel like I'm probably the
least dimmer person here I feel like a
dimmer hat the time yeah they like the
immersing that mostly people have called
me I don't call it myself myself at very
much oh man there's so much here okay
what did you say earlier about you said
or something earlier about the whole
mindset of like embracing positivity for
the sake of that will make you feel
better on its own accord that that's
kind of you said something like that's
why I want you to react tick you ate it
because I'm not I didn't run breathing I
think the power positive thinking is bad
yeah so so I I think that there are a
lot of people who try to be relentlessly
positive and that's actually incredibly
toxic
so I think that when you when you ignore
what's bad in your life and you just
focus on the positive like you know if I
if I have like a broken arm and I'm like
oh but I still have one arm that works
and I'm like oh but like look this arm
works great like let's just focus on the
fact let me be thankful for this arm
being functional and it's like if you if
that's your strategy in life you're
gonna go through life with one arm
you're not gonna try to fix with a
broken right so I and I think it's just
I I think the the my foundation is not
to try to be positive it's not to try to
be negative it's try to be where you are
like be where you are start where you
are and move from there and whenever you
try to like be in a place that you're
not which by the way I think is like
half of like some of y'all's problems
right I mean III think like of anyway
I'll get there but I think I think I see
couple people smiling so I think you
guys know what I'm talking about so I
think I want to start with this like so
the promise of a generation so I'm also
like a you know my parents were
immigrants from South Asian country
India and and so I kind of also feel the
you know for those I mean I don't know
where Lotus is from but you know when I
was growing up I had a couple of options
so my dad once told me that like I have
an older brother he's like one of y'all
is gonna be a lawyer and one y'all is
gonna be a doctor and my brother is
older and he went to law school so in my
med school interviews they're like why
do you want to be a doctor and then I'd
say well my dad said that what he all
has to be a lawyer one a all has to be a
doctor and my brother was older and he
got to choose first so here I him and
then you know they would laugh because
that's obviously funny and what they
didn't understand is that you know that
was actually half the reason I was there
but but I I think you know we're so what
I want to start with is that like our
generation was given a promise right
that we were given a promise of like
success and happiness and we were told
that if you follow this formula this is
how you will be successful secure and
happy in your life and we were told this
formula with with such finality that you
work hard you go to college you get a
job
you leave yeah you you graduate with a
one of these like very specific degrees
like you don't major in liberal arts
you don't major in art history
you know you get yourself like a real
job like engineering or like CS like CS
was sort of like the forefront of like
people are like we don't really know if
this is gonna work out and then you know
the dot-com boom happened in 2000 and
it's like OCS became oh don't be done
it's like completely acceptable along
with doctor engineer wonderful wonderful
that's the good one right so that was
that was what happened like we were
given that we were given this path and
we were told by our elders that if you
follow this path you will be happy in
life and it turned out that that's like
the biggest scam of that's the biggest
scam and it's not really their fault and
then they get really [ __ ] confused
because they're like I don't understand
why you just don't do what I tell you to
do like this is the way to be happy and
then you have conflict with them right
you're like no but this doesn't make me
happy they're like you're dumb you'll be
happy when you're 40 just do what I'm
telling you to do happiness comes later
like you [ __ ] kids trying to be happy
it's not about happiness you'll be happy
when you're 40 trust me and and that's
what we were told so we were given the
promise of a generation promise of a
generation turned out to be a lie and I
don't really blame them for it I mean I
used to but I think like that was that
was the formula that worked for their
generation like if you wanted to leave
India so my parent my dad grew up in an
8 by 10 room that had eight people
living in it eight people lived in an 8
by 10 room at nighttime they would pack
up the kitchen and they would like lay
out sleeping bags but not sleeping bags
to put like mats and then one person
would sleep outside the door in like the
doorway like in the entryway right
that's where they grew up
their life was different meaning and
happiness were irrelevant it was like
we've got to survive because there was
like rationing and like you had to stand
in line for an hour to get like a pound
of sugar and you could get another pound
of sugar like a month later
it's just a different world that they
grew up in and so all of these feelings
became very irrelevant because it was
about survival and they saw opportunity
to like come to the United States and
like they saw a particular way to do
that and they did that and then they
could do things like afford cars and
then they could do things like buy like
a thousand pounds of sugar for people
back home and so that was that was what
they grew up with I mean I think
immigrants is probably a little bit more
extreme but I think if you look at even
like Caucasian people or like Americans
or Canadians from like 60 years ago is
the same way you could support a family
with like one income and a bachelor's
degree bachelor's degree doesn't get you
[ __ ] now so the first thing is that I
think the biggest problem is that we
were led to believe something that is
actually incorrect and so I think the
real challenge here is that we've had to
figure out and I don't think anyone has
really I mean we're doing this but I
don't think anyone has I don't think
many people stop and really think a
little bit about the fact that we have
to find our own way forward in this
we're not gonna find an answer from
somewhere else because those answers
just don't work anymore it's like the
test has changed so the answer key from
like 50 years ago doesn't work anymore
and what I'm hearing from you guys is
like autopilot so what is autopilot it
can be a couple of different things
right like so gaming to manage your
emotions and things like that but
essentially like I mean it doesn't
surprise me that the best result that an
Aussie has ever gotten is 50% because I
think he's doing something something
that he gives no shits about and when
you take a human being and you make them
like give a hundred percent effort for
something that they give no shits about
50 percent is pretty good right and I I
hear it from stray cat to that like
there is an assumption about how human
beings interact and relate to each other
and she has social anxiety so those
assumptions don't apply to her she's
playing a different game she was also
taught like a particular way to socially
behave with other people and what what
you're supposed to do she was also given
a formula go out make friends say hi to
people be more active just get out of
the house just get out of the house just
be more active
just get out of it but stray cat just
get out of the house you'll make friends
it's the promise of a generation that's
[ __ ] wrong right the world that we
live in is fundamentally different and
so I think the biggest problem that all
you guys have is autopilot you know so I
mean I'm gonna say biggest like several
times because I think there are several
biggest problems so you guys I just so
the first thing is that I think you guys
have to stop living on autopilot and I
that's hard right so when Zil stopped
talks about not living on autopilot like
what is the emotion that arises Zil you
can't answer by the way okay what is the
emotion that arises for Zil when you
stop living on autopilot panic
absolutely yeah right that's what's
holding you back I mean so so stray cat
was saying that she has a lack of
direction and lacks meaning in her life
well let me tell you guys something
if you major in something that you don't
care about and you have a life of thirty
five years of a successful career
spending eight hours a day doing
something that you don't care about your
life is gonna be meaningless just how it
works
right you guys are looking for meaning
in something that you fundamentally give
two shits about so you're not gonna find
it there now the challenge is like what
keeps you guys from moving forward I
think it's fear and panic absolutely and
this is where we kind of get to this
whole conundrum of like is the world the
problem or you the problem and I think
rune put it beautifully that the world
makes you into the person that you are
today but now this is where it gets
really tricky right because who
determines who you are tomorrow
I mean that sounds like a feel-good kind
of answer do you guys actually believe
that more half right cuz my response to
you I mean I get and I get Lotus that
this is dr. K stream and we're supposed
to be like positive and wholesome and
have breakthroughs but like if you
determine who you are tomorrow like why
did you end up where you are today right
does that make sense like who determines
who you are today if you're saying that
you control who you are tomorrow who was
in control yesterday and how did you end
up where you are today that doesn't make
sense to me it's like putting the blame
right so so hold on a second so now
stray cat like now we got to be we got
to be we got to be careful with
ourselves if we have blame then we have
power you can't have one without the
other so which is it does that make
sense to you guys
can't have it was it good your turn to
think I think that's
the blame hurt though is because it's
like oh I was in charge if I was I was
responsible of the situation and I
[ __ ] it up okay so then we come back
to control right so like did you really
[ __ ] it up usually feels like I do
uh-uh hold on you do or you did big
difference
are you referencing like
today versus yesterday what do you mean
yes the distinction absolutely that's
exactly what I'm referencing I think it
depends on I guess how much resilience I
have when I wake up in the morning if I
can continue to fight that fight you
know okay so if you don't have enough
resilience in the morning whose fault is
that I see what do you see help the rest
of us see room well I think I've I think
you're just basically our to Hue
anything how complicated these kids
because it feels complicated it's like I
it's it's still my responsibility I
still see it like that but that's at the
same time maybe give yourself a break
every now and then what are the rest
you'll think about that I think well
like give yourself a break
like for me that that feels as if like
oh if I'm giving myself a break
then like where the where am i
displacing all that feelings to that's
sort of like my my internalization of
like giving myself a break almost like I
feel like when you said like surviving I
feel as if in like autopilot like it's
all connects like I autopilot so I can
survive and so therefore I can't give
myself a break it's like I have to like
do these things yeah right so that's the
panic in the fear because unless you
continue living your life like you can
only like if you stop going on autopilot
and you give yourself a break then like
you're afraid that the world is gonna
come crashing down stray cat said panic
like stray cat what do you think what do
you think the panic is like can you
describe that for us
um well for me it's like literally a
panic attack but uh and like a more I'm
not charlie it's really just uncertainty
and like the unknown yeah so what do you
guys think about like just think about
that for a second I mean with the doom
er this is very different okay
the Doomer knows what's happening on the
outside world the outside world is known
it's fixed it's given that's why there's
no hope does that make sense the outside
world has been solved for but what you
guys are describing to me is very
different it's actually like the unknown
that there's there in a sense it's not I
think what this means is that there's an
autopilot you and the autopilot you is
the Doomer and the autopilot you like
looks into the future and knows that
there is no hope for you and then
there's another part of you that
understands that there is another
outside world there that is uncertain
and unknown but you guys are all
actively choosing to go on autopilot and
pick the dimers world what do you think
about that
yeah I think it relates to one part of
my life especially like in my education
I've always just listened to what my
parents say when I ask for help like I'm
always uncertain if I should keep going
but then I think of or if I stop doing
this course and go to something else
I've never done this sort of I've always
been sort of doing IT my whole life so
that's what I'm going into but if I'm
being completely honest I feel like
something else would be better but the
uncertainty stops me from trying of
doing anything other than what I'm
currently going down yeah so how much
like who here is living with unser is
living with Dakshina is afraid of living
with uncertainty right or like other
people do you guys feel similar to an
Aussie in the sense that there's another
path that you could walk but you're
terrified of what'll well like what's at
the end of that path because you don't
know how so
Lotus let's say even if I did you know
pursue your culinary arts or whatever
else in post-secondary even if it did
complete all of that I don't know what I
would do is that afterwards I don't know
like I don't know out of all the paths
that I can take I don't know where any
of it will lead me to how do you live
with that how do you live with
uncertainty strike at what do you think
how do you deal with your panic I kind
of don't it it feels like it takes
control of me instead mm-hmm so I tend
to just avoid things that cause that
panic in the first place yeah so it's
kind of living without really doing
anything yeah so I avoid things that
cause the panic in the first place that
is the [ __ ] definition of autopilot
becoming an engineer right what your
whole lives guys are built around the
avoidance of uncertainty of the road
that you have not locked and the problem
here is that when you look at the road
that you are walking you see doom and
gloom at the end of it and the thing is
that's not a cognitive bias it's not
because you guys are [ __ ] depressed
it's because you guys are smart it's
because every step along that road has
been doom and gloom and then you're like
I've been getting 50% like you know
going back to annecy he's been given
trying really hard and the best he can
do is 50% and he's like if I continue
studying an IT the most I'm ever gonna
be able to get is 50% and so you look at
a life and it's it's a Doomer because
the best you could if you give a hundred
all you're gonna get is 50 that is a bad
world to live in
but then we kind of circle back and we
like we think about this for a little
bit and we see that there are a couple
of core things the first is the
avoidance of uncertainty the fear of
like what is the world gonna look like
and that's a reasonable fear - we can
kind of get into how that is how that
works and then there's also like a
couple of other things which I can't
haven't been able to quite tie together
one is like what the sense of isolation
is and the third is yeah a sense of how
did you get to be here and who's
responsible for be like where you are
now and who's responsible for what
happens in the future and you guys want
to say that you're responsible but the
more I kind of like chip away at that it
seems like you guys aren't actually so
sure right and this goes back to like
what rune was saying about being
resilient he's like depends on how I
resilient I am that day and I was like
okay well what determines how resilient
you are like whose fault is that right
so the first thing so let's like think
about so are those are those like three
topics that we can try to dig into does
that sound reasonable do you guys think
those are like worthwhile things to talk
about
yeah cuz like if I see it as like sort
of like a like a mom bro like those all
those three things fall under the
umbrella like the doom are kind of yeah
yeah but I think it's more than one
thing so I think there's uncertainty
about the road not taken' there's the
security of being on autopilot that's
one thing second thing is like what's
going on with isolation and the third
thing is like who is responsible for
your life
now the next thing I'm going to ask you
guys is I see I sense a subtle change in
this group how do you guys feel right
now
in a different way from the beginning
you know I'm actually a little less
nervous to me events so what do you feel
nervous about stray cat um just being on
stream really okay so you feel a little
less nervous but essentially the same
quality of nervousness yeah and I see
how do you feel you don't know what are
you doing right now smiling why right so
you were smiling before I asked you how
you're feeling did you notice that no
okay
you've been smiling for a little while
now any idea why that is I mean now
you're smiling coz maybe you feel
embarrassed and you just noticed you're
smiling but yeah maybe because we're
getting somewhere
is that what you think actually that's
not the right question is that how you
feel
yeah I think with the three topics it
sort of hits right well the things I
don't do you do you know how to describe
what you're feeling right now really
does anybody else have a sense of when
they look at when you guys look at an
Aussies face what do you think he's
feeling I think you've having a good
time yeah and I see how many
I told you that maybe school is not
where you should be
I've brought that into because I feel
like a lot of people figure a lot of
people tell you oh so I know and now see
and stray so I'm familiar with the stuff
they talk about so fight if I'm like if
I'm asserting some things that's why is
because we talked about it before but it
was like I know kind of feels like an
Aussie is told a lot of times just just
work harder at school just do school
more oh god that sounds like a terrible
idea to me yeah just work harder is like
the worst strategy in the universe like
it's like telling stray cat and just
leave the house more just get on it like
de precios not that bad just get out of
bed jump out of bed I once had someone
tell me that their solution to
depression was to jump out of bed not
get out of bed leap out of bed and they
said that if I can leap out of bed that
my depression is cured you should tell
your patients to jump out of bed
that's like alright man I'll do that
it's [ __ ] dumb advice it's not how it
works trying harder so if at first you
don't succeed don't try try again if at
first you don't succeed try it a
different way like you know I mean
anyway that don't get me started on
ranting on another topic so let's let's
talk about uncertainty isolation and
agency okay these are our three topics
so let's kind of bang them out so we're
gonna be a little bit more quick about
them so when you guys think about
uncertainty like what do you think would
happen to your life if you started
taking the road that you're uncertain
where it leads it's scary to think
what's scary fulfilling
scary about it we'll get to in
relentless positivity in a second so
like okay if I can't provide like a
gamer analogy so it's like I put a
little bit of dota so it's like who
makes like the guys for dota I forgot
who but like it's like if I play DotA
it's like okay I know that I want to do
well so dota life right I'll make those
analogies right okay so I'll follow this
guide
hence the guy is sort of like the
boomers talking down it's like hey just
get these items and then get do this
item path you'll be fine right and so
it's like okay I'll just follow this
guide and see if I can win the dota
match but and then like to think too
like veer away like sure this other guys
like to think that's like I can choose
my own items and play how I want I don't
know if it's gonna give me the same
results and so like that I have
experienced already the autopilot so I'm
gonna I'm gonna give you sort of like
I'm gonna modify your analogy a little
bit okay so let's say you're playing
dota so like what position do you play
and donut so I always played support
okay so I like playing support too so
like let's say that someone says like if
you want to win games like someone says
like here's how you win game a game of
dota you play anti-mage you farm for 45
minutes and then you go 27 oh and 15 and
they say this is the way to play yeah
and then what happens is is you play
anti-mage right there guy like you look
at their guide and their guide is
spot-on
they're like you're like wow and they're
like look if you want to just if you
want to see it happen you don't have to
look at my guide like just look at like
look at our TZ streaming and just watch
him do it like look at all these hard
carries like they [ __ ] own the games
they win like millions of dollars using
this strategy so you should use it too
and then what happens when you play
anti-mage though I tell my teammates so
much yeah you know why you tilt your
teammates cuz I'm probably bad at it
absolutely I'm like not doing what our
T's is doing absolutely so I follow the
guide I play a team agent I [ __ ] get
owned
I'm oh eight and fifteen at the end of
the game and then the the guy comes back
and he's like dude you just got to
follow the guide man just follow the
guide but your experience is causing you
to like lose
mm our Alec game after game after game
you're getting crushed what happens when
you play support he goes back up or like
it's like it's more like one more
enjoyable because I know I'm doing I
guess so like following guys I think
it's like I'm used to it but those are
all like different also things too but
generally the feeling is that I find
that hey I play better the feeling is
that you fit played bad when oh sorry
phew if I play support I play better
yeah you play better yeah
and it's more fun yeah so so this is
what you guys have to understand about
like the promise of a generation which
is that it's it's a lie right like it's
not that it's like a pure lie it's just
that like I think your analogy was
beautiful though because it's like
they're giving you a guide for like a
strategy and a character that you do not
want to play and when you try to play
that character you find that you suck at
it and and then the problem here is that
your whole life you've been playing so
like imagine you're playing dota and
you've never played before and like
you've never played support all you've
been doing is like following anti-mage
guides and you think that good dota is a
shitty game because all you ever do is
first pick anti-mage that's what your
life is like because all you've been
doing is picking antimage you've never
given yourself the chance to like pick a
dazzle or a lion or like an Oracle or
whatever like you haven't actually tried
like it because you're like butBut how
am I supposed to carry a game with
Oracle like the guide says I have to go
27 and no I've watched our TZ stream but
like how am I supposed to like win a
game with the support like I can't I
can't build like how does that even work
and so your your your minds ability to
even consider what is down the road of
uncertainty like you can't even think
about you can't calculate it but it
doesn't mean that there isn't like lots
of success possible that's just you have
no idea how to predict it which is
because you've never played a game as a
support so then the next question is so
for Zil and sorry if this is a little
bit dota specific will get more general
but so still like what do you
like what do you think about uncertainty
now like what's the solution to fearing
the uncertainty of your life oh I've
been a lot introspection and like I had
actually have not been able to answer
that or asked myself that question so
it's like like a wall up for me first of
all well I'll give you a quick answer a
quick hint you're not gonna find the
answer through introspection right like
if I'm a dota player so I'll ask you in
another way if I'm a dota player and I
keep on losing playing antimage and I
suck at it and I'm like losing and
losing and losing and losing and losing
you guys understand what I'm talking
about like even if you don't know who
anti-mage's clear League yeah okay so
like you know so it's like ADC it's like
the way you win a game League as you
pick an ADC and then you just go 27 and
oh and then you pick an ADC and then you
go oh and it so what do you do like if
like so let's steer clear of suicide
okay boys and girls so I'm asking you so
practically Zil if I was playing dota
for the first time and I played 50 games
of anti-mage and I won two of them and I
say this game sucks what is the
practical advice you would tell me try a
different hero absolutely but then I
come to you and I say is but Zil like I
don't know how to win a game with that
other hero my yes like but the Accademia
is like I could deem assign means like
well just play the rest of the games and
see and compare the the win rates
between the 250 game samples is that
what you would tell me you tell me to
play another 50 games as an T major or
as a support as like the the new role
and but I say but but I may not win I
could lose dil what would you say
my gut reactions like just try and like
that's sort of like I don't know like
that's like disingenuous I feel like
it's like I know that they want to win
the game but it's like you got try what
what what is trying do gives you more
information to see if you're good at the
new role that you're playing that's it
man that's it
right that's exactly what you need to do
you need more information about the road
that you have not taken because you're
like I don't remember if you're studying
engineering or what but like I don't
know what you're studying or what career
path you're on but like the basic
problem is that you've been following
the anti-mage guide and what you need to
do is play a few games is other things
to see if you like it or see if it
offers any chance of success and
understand that when you play a new game
you're actually gonna be worse at it
than what you're doing now I guess like
from a professional career like
following the anti-mage guide kind of
did work so like sure but I have other
problems or I have like other facets
that that analogy can definitely apply
to you so yeah yeah what do you guys
think about like I don't know how much
of this conversation y'all have been
able to follow but all of it I'm on the
same page rune can you explain to me
what we just talked about yeah basically
if something is if you're unhappy with
you want it say it with the analogy or
you want without the analogy please okay
do you so basically if you are unhappy
with the way the strategy that you're
applying to your own life or whatever
you're doing in your daily life if
you're unhappy with that you have to be
willing to go out on a limb [ __ ] up and
get dominated which is the league
analogy you have to we want to fail and
learn how to do something that you will
enjoy more
what do you think about that it's worked
for me I do music so I spent a lot of
time like writing and producing music
I've been doing it for like three years
now and in the past like three months
I've decided to put more effort and more
energy into it and a little bit less
effort into like school and it has its
own like hardships but it's way more
fulfilling what do other people think
about what rune just said sounds pretty
good what sounds good about it Lotus
that's you're finding something that's
new and fulfilling and that sounds like
you want to keep pursuing it so I want
to just be a little bit clearer I don't
think that it was new and fulfilling so
this is an important distinction okay
this is part of the problem that gets us
stuck we think something is new and
fulfilling rune when you started music
was it new and fulfilling no I was
confusing and weird so would you say
that the less new it got the more
fulfilling it became absolutely not
in fact I think the more I stuck with it
the more fulfilling it's gotten okay I
think that's what I asked you but that's
okay so basically is when it's new it's
not fulfilling and the more that you
explore it at the beginning gets [ __ ]
confusing and weird and you don't know
what you're doing but fulfillment
doesn't come at the beginning it comes
at the end yeah and there's a period of
time that has confusion and weirdness
yeah right so like let's just think
about that when we're thinking about
alternatives so this is where we kind of
get into expectations and and fantasies
and stuff like that there's this other
idea that the Boomers give us that if
you try something you'll like it
right they say like oh just go out and
like meet new people everything will be
fine no it's gonna be [ __ ] awkward
and awful that's not what they tell you
they tell you they say exactly what
Lotus said oh I should try something
that's new and fulfilling nobody you
should try something that's new and
difficult and awkward and overtime if
you're lucky it will become fulfilling
and if you're unlucky then what do you
do now let me ask you guys something
is what I'm was what we're talking about
now just try no it's about experiencing
and learning right so like how is what
I'm what we're talking about different
from just go out and try something new
or is it the same no there's more
lenient in it and more like you don't
have to stick to it and keep trying you
can just find what fits I I think like
the like the education part right cuz
like you can try something but not have
any sort of like wanting of education
but when you told me it's like you
should try something else to figure it
out or like to learn something to me
that's like educating myself on this
topic so I can try and educate and I
think there's also a difference between
just trying like I think that's how you
how you explain it right like I'm asking
you guys it's I don't care what I
believe the question is what do you guys
think if I were to if I had started this
and you guys were saying oh yeah I don't
like what I'm doing and I said just try
something else is that the same as where
we are now right so what are the key
things so stray cat and and Zillah
mentioned a couple of things right it
changes the perception around why you're
trying the just try is try for the goal
of success
but now what what I think stray cat said
it really well there's leniency in this
there's a presumption of failure there's
a presumption of [ __ ] up and there's
a presumption that the goal here is a
this is enough is own the goal is
actually not to succeed what is the goal
to learn absolutely so I think the
problem is that nasi wants to get a
hundred on something that he loved
relating to school I think it's got to
be something that he gives a [ __ ] about
right like that's like there's no way
you're gonna get a hundred if you don't
care about what you do and this is where
you know we were there that we've
touched on meaning and fulfilment and it
sounds like rune has found some degree
of fulfillment in music and that's also
how it works it's like you find
fulfillment in playing the position of
the game that you enjoy and the problem
is that we have all these guides telling
us that if we want to win you should
play this position and that too is kind
of interesting because if you look at
the game of life there are some
successes that are so much more
noticeable that people can point to them
right and like for like the MOBA players
like think about this for a second the
reason that the anti-mage is 27 and or
the reason that your ADC is having a
wonderful game is because of like a
supports warding a supports position but
none of that no boomer can point to that
and tell you that that's the reason that
that like that's not what you see right
does that make sense that some paths to
success or subtle and difficult to
detect but the problem is that we get
biased by the overnight success stories
we get biased by like the so-and-so who
like became an investment banker and was
your colleague and you guys were you
guys were neighbors and now he's so
successful and now you're a piece of
[ __ ] and he's married and he's going on
a hunting like we look at some successes
and we try it but we don't realize that
there are equally good successes that
are just hard to detect and subtle and
that your path in life isn't going to
look like the fantasy that you come up
with in your mind so it's my fastest
success basically and trying something
new until I find the right thing for me
for example ask these guys I don't know
the answer that question what do you
guys think he keeps mentioning : arey
you said that a few times I mainly
switch out of that because even course
are telling me that maybe it's not a
maybe it's not something that suits me
or maybe I'm not like cut out for it is
it something that you're proud of or
just something you actually enjoy it was
a little bit of both until I realized
how stressful it became and at the end
of the day it's like it doesn't pay as
much as I would like it to so what do
you guys do
Lotus should do he's 21 right
are you America I'm I kinda in Canada I
worked as a chef for a little bit and I
hated it made the decision to stop but I
also was really bad at it and didn't
care about it so I think it kind of
matters how much do you care about it
and how much do you want money so my
plan right now
she just go back to school for trades
program was just like completely
different right and the idea is to
actually you just try it out see how it
worked
see how I like it if I don't like it so
I want to offer just a little bit of
advice here so the other thing that I
want you guys to understand is that so I
think going back and getting a trade
getting trained in a trade is like a
good idea but I want you guys to
understand that getting trained in a
trade or going back to school is not the
career that you're gonna do for the rest
of your life like do you guys know what
my job is kind of funny question what's
my job what do I do you like a couple
things right it's like hi 'try faculty
what is this
this is what I'm passionate about
yeah is this what I trained to do
exactly so understand that what what you
so fulfilling a certain financial
security is one thing finding work that
you find fulfilling is something else
so Lotus I think if you want to get a
trade degree and like get a job that
pays pretty well like an HVAC or
something like that like by all means go
for it but don't stop there and
understand what you're getting into is
not necessarily a fulfilling career that
you have some financial needs and that
like you should continue looking for the
things that make you happy I mean that
over time so I do believe that the world
rewards just from a Darwinian or
evolutionary perspective people who
really really care about stuff because I
think the world is filled with people
like an Aussie who give two shits about
their job and produce 50% quality work
and so it's up every now and then
someone comes along who genuinely cares
about what they do and there's like
financial reward in that that's my
general belief in observation
so I'd say for lotus-like you guys also
have to understand that fixing your life
is gonna be a series of like missteps
right but you have to take the step that
like you gotta take now so if you want
to get like a a trade degree by all
means go for it but don't assume for a
second that the fulfillment that rune
gets for making music is going to come
from that it may come from that you
could end up being lucky but your
journey does not stop there that's the
other big lie that the boomers taught us
which is that your education is your
career and your career should be
enjoyable and fulfilling like I don't
accept that for a second
like I think careers can change wildly
and that what you find fulfillment from
is something that you should work on and
then like the other good thing that
boomers like I don't agree with it all
is that like boomers think that you
should have like a job and then you
should have hobbies no I think the world
is quickly becoming a place where your
hobbies are worth just as much as a job
and what I mean by that is the barriers
to publication or lower so like you have
solo dudes who will like create video
games and put them on Steam and will
make tons of money from it because
that's what they care about and they
have a job that whole time you have
people who work like you know overnight
shifts at hotels and like write books
because that's what they care about
that's what I think you guys should do
if you need to do some kind of work in
the meantime like the reason I'm a
psychiatrist is because I have to
support a family I love talking to
gamers that's what I love doing and this
is also where right now I think the real
problem is that you guys gravitate and
I'm sorry if I'm not getting to the
other topics but I feel like preaching
is that okay is that that's fine go for
my dude okay so I think the other thing
is that you guys really have to think a
little bit about you know right now
you're avoiding pain and seeking
pleasure but the way for you guys to
like study hard and even if it sucks is
for you to have studying be in service
to another goal so like if an Aussie
says okay I want to like write you know
a fantasy fiction novel
and in order to do that I have to
support myself for some time I think
then his ability to study is gonna be
way better does that make sense like
I've got to support myself for some way
while I like figure out what I want to
do but the problem is that right now
school is the goal for you guys it's not
a means your job is the goal it's not a
means and it's a goal that you guys
don't care about so you're not gonna
give your best so I think you could get
a job by all means be financially
independent but understand that the the
financial independence is just money so
that you can actually get on to living
the life that you want does that make
sense
questions yes like the question I have
it's like if we acknowledged I like the
the fulfilling the fulfillment and then
like the money like the financial
securities are two different things then
like we're like the boomers isn't like
reaction like remembers reaction to each
individual thing right
or is it like do they just lump them
together the boomers don't care about
fulfillment like that's the basic
problem so I think like they lived in a
day in time where like the stress on our
mind and what we care about and stuff
like that it's changed something has
changed within humanity like over the
last 20 or 30 years I don't quite know
what it is but fulfillment has become
way more important I think there's a
reason why there's been an explosion of
yoga across the world and it's I think
because people are looking for more
peace and harmony and fulfillment and I
think part of that is probably because
like the clothes so what's actually I
just maybe figured it out you guys know
what Maslow's hierarchy of needs is
mmm-hmm so like fifty years ago or a
hundred years ago where were we on
Maslow's hierarchy of needs as a society
survive absolutely right so that's at
the bottom where are we now
is the factorization absolutely right so
automation lab-grown food the universal
basic income belonging huh see all love
and belonging you know what you guys
talk about so but my point is that like
I think the stresses on humanity are
changing we're like we're not the things
that you we used to worry about her and
like we're closer to the top like
shelter and stuff is like you know
you're for the most part isn't like as
big of a problem infant mortality a
hundred years ago was like twenty
percent just think about that you know
like not many kids died now and that's
what they used to worry about and like
now the closer we are towards the top
the more like the things that we have to
worry about become mental so the boomers
just don't understand that and it's not
their fault it's just we're living in a
different world so I got a run in about
fifteen minutes so I'm gonna give you
guys a choice do you guys want to talk
about isolation or agency I say
isolation isolation so let's talk about
it what what makes you feel isolated its
loneliness having no friends okay so
let's think about this for a second okay
so if you have no friends let me just
think for a second about how to try to
do something substantive in 15 minutes
about this I have two friends they're in
here yeah so do you feel I so let's just
think about that for a second how how
much do online relationships matter um
to me like it means a lot but for like
your average person who goes outside has
real friends I don't know do you think
that you don't have real friends no like
no okay so buy real friends you don't
mean like authentic friends you mean
like physical friends yeah
I'm just thinking for a second what do
you think it is that makes you feel
isolated for the other folks I spend
like all my time home alone okay
whenever a lot of unis it's I don't have
a job and even throughout school I'd
premature always just come home play
games by myself just in my room it's
pretty much where well hold on are you
playing single-player games no normally
multiplayer but alone okay hmm I think
this may take more than 15 minutes
unfortunately are - yeah I guess so
I mean I I think I want to do this
justice and I'm just not seeing I think
this is a whole different issue you know
like I don't think this is actually
related to the like what we've been
talking about for an hour and a half I
mean it's may be related but I think
it's it's it's own thing like how I tied
ins like for me le it's like the
autopilot also drove into the isolation
where it's like okay in the autopilot
like algorithm it's like being alone is
fine but like that's how I programmed my
autopilot right mm-hmm
certainty of like Oh what if I let if I
open myself up right like what happens
so it's like that's how I tie it yeah so
I think we have to you guys know like
how you know going out and trying new
things as sort of a conclusion we came
to but we didn't just say just try new
stuff right there's like a different way
of understanding like walking the road
of uncertainty I think we have to do the
same thing with isolation it's not it's
not as simple as saying just go out and
make friends I think it's understanding
and I just don't I don't I don't
understand it so I don't understand what
it is that makes you guys feel isolated
and you guys are giving me some really
good answers but I think actually
there's more to it so I I think that the
problem isn't just that you know don't
know people I think the problem is that
when you meet or a problem is that when
you meet people you can't show them who
you are and there's no point in like
going out and being fake like that's not
like even if you guys have friends or
hanging out with people I think if you
can't show them who you are it's still
isolating so that their their different
perspective their different layers to
this that I'm picking up right now I
just I want to do it justice and I just
don't think we can do that in like
another five to ten minutes but so
apologies for that guys I've noticed
something on the server i lurk around
the healthy gamer discord sometimes and
this seems like a really common theme on
the server actually just people who
don't have a whole lot of like real life
connections and you asked earlier
whether or not like online friends and
real life friends can be you know if
they're the same value I think they can
be but I think often times there's
something about being in a room with
someone that really isn't fully
replaceable
I completely agree
so I'll give you guys so in the last
five to ten minutes I'll give you guys a
chance to ask questions or anyone have
like kind of closing thoughts or let's
start with actions so I had a question
about Lake back to like like the dota
stuff where it's like like say it's like
oh I can't
it's like my thing right it was like oh
they were winning because an item is
broken like like their success like the
Doomer mentality where it's like oh
they're doing well not because they'd
fall on the guy but it's like oh that
items broken or like that characters
broken like would that follow under the
noumic mentality kind of because it's
like it's not putting anything on you
but like something else something
external I don't I don't quite follow
your analogy but my instinct isn't not
really I don't know that that's the
Boomer mentality or you saying do I do
me do me do me
yeah so I think that that is so here's
what I'm hearing you saying so I think
this kind of actually goes back to
agency and like who's responsible and I
think a lot of times people attribute
other people's successes to
circumstances and and I think that
that's not I mean some some of that's
true right so some people have more
advantages than you do in life and so
they have a leg up and that's true is
that fair no is it equal no but I think
generally speaking when someone talks
about something being dopey that's ego
more than anything else right that's
like you don't want to it like you don't
want to look at your own shortcomings
and you want to just simplify and
protect yourself from where you fall
short so you call something dopey but
you know if you just think about it in a
video game when someone calls something
Opie what they really mean is this
person is beating me and I can't accept
that the reason that they're beating me
is because they're playing better so
instead what I'm gonna say is that
they're ropey right that item is Opie
and I mean sometimes things are Opie but
you know I think for the most part like
if you're thinking in the mentality of
you know someone else has like an
advantage over you and that's the reason
they're successful like I think that
that's not really a it's not a
productive way of thinking whether it's
right or whether it's wrong it just
doesn't help you because the issue is
like what do you have right and how do
you get to where you want to go
and and sometimes you have to come up
with an unorthodox strategy to like move
forward in your own life which i think
is unfortunate because the boomers had a
formula like that's the other big thing
no one gave us like there's no formula
for us because this is new like the the
epidemic of loneliness is like new like
human beings used to hang out because we
didn't have technology to separate us
like we just you know now it's like
between ubereats and like grocery
delivery and all kinds of other stuff
like I never have to leave my I can live
in the middle of it a million people and
never see any of them and so I think
part of the challenge is that we have to
figure out how we're gonna move forward
and that's gonna happen from hopefully
conversations like this cuz I don't have
all the answers guys like you guys know
I mean you guys know what it's like to
be in your shoes and and you guys have
to help each other out because I don't
know I mean I'm in a different stage of
my life and you all need to help each
other out in terms of figuring out like
how do you deal with isolation I'm not
sure but I think we should continue to
talk about it I'm happy to play referee
but you all have to be the ones that
play the game other questions and we're
talking about the whole guy going out on
a limb and trying to new things and
failing and learning I feel like like
over my I've been doing music since I
was like eight but I had took I've been
taking it more seriously for the past
few years and over that time it there's
a lot of moments or like I almost quit
or almost gave ups and like this is I'm
awful at this I'm just terrible at this
I just hate everything I make go make a
song and then the next day I'll be like
this is the worst thing I've ever heard
in my life and I think that comes on
down to a lot of like just
disproportionate self-love it
self-loathing and it's something I still
struggle with and I don't I haven't
really found like a good way to deal
with it other than just to stop thinking
about that and go to the next song make
Celine do you have any you like no
insight yes and no so I think you've
figured out the most important solution
so I don't know if you guys I mean so
people think that I'm good at what I do
on stream and like I was a really bad
therapist for like three years and I
really started to become a better there
it's not even therapy I started become a
better therapist when I stopped doing
therapy so literally what happened is
like I would I got taught a certain way
to do therapy and then I was bad at it
and and I think that what you said is
actually the most important thing which
is to like don't let the way that you
feel about your performance affect
whether you try again right whether you
try again shouldn't be determined by
your performance it should be determined
by your passion towards the subject like
don't just keep trying I mean it's fine
to quit I think it's it's good to quit
but quit for the right reasons quit
because you actually don't care about it
don't quit it's something because you're
bad
this cycle every single time for me is
like I'll make something I like it for
like two hours and then and then I hate
it I don't do any music for like 24
hours and then I hear something that I'm
like holy [ __ ] that's beautiful and I
have to go do that oh he likes a new
artist and like a new song out or
something so it's like this like that
inspiration that passion comes back and
drives me to do it again yeah so so what
I hear there is that there's something
inside you that longs to create music
and like you said there's a some scar or
like you know ball of self-loathing that
comes out and likes to play from time to
time
and understand that that ball of
loathing is not actually you it's just a
ball of self-loathing that has built up
over years and years and years as you've
become like a Doomer you know some of
the time and and that's how it works so
I want you guys to understand that the
self-loathing that you have for yourself
is not really the real you it's just
like up later than a cognitive pattern
in your mind you know like when you get
a song stuck in your head and the song
just kind of randomly pops up and like
plays on autopilot for a while and then
randomly goes away
that's like a feeling of like
self-loathing literally functions like
that
it pops up there are times where you're
feeling okay and then the self-loathing
just pops up and it's like hey you
[ __ ] suck at life uh and then you
feel that way for a while and for some
people it's longer and for some people
it's less and then it kind of leaves
your mind for a while and then you're
kind of living and you're feeling good
about yourself you're able to get out of
bed and that song pops up in here oh you
suck at life right so it just because
these we have these cognitive things
that exist within our mind doesn't mean
that they're they're true they're not
correct it doesn't mean you actually
suck at life and so just notice that
that self-loathing arises and like
notice when it's there and noticed this
is part of the pattern and take some
comfort in the fact that that's gonna go
away and your inspiration will return so
I think you're well on the right path
good could be here so I'm just gonna ask
people kind of for closing thoughts so
what I'd love to hear is a little bit
about you know how you found the session
and and if you learned something I'd
love to hear what that was if you felt
like there are things that you'd still
like to explore I'd love to hear what
what that is as well so I think we can
maybe just go around the room
oh is that me starting sure um as far as
learning something I don't know it's
really just more a reflection of things
that I've kind of thought or guessed at
myself but uh hearing it from other
people I don't know it kind of confirms
it
I don't trust in my opinion as much as
I'd say I trust in others
excellent point it's very nice to be
able to sorry but you go you go I'm just
gonna I'm kind of building on what
Strait said it's really nice to be able
to go into the nuances of these things
in a setting where everyone is on the
same page already and it there's like a
nice feeling of support I think just
from that alone yeah like like you said
like because it's we're talking I like
nuanced things like the Dumon mentality
can go so in-depth into these nuanced
things and so I guess like the
realization of like how much of like if
you said loneliness is a problem and
like all these like factors but in terms
and I acknowledge that and in terms of
sort of like the steps to go on a path
of quote-unquote fixing it or dealing
with it I learned that's like I need to
set myself in situations where I should
try not to look at like the success or
failure part but more of the learning
and teaching part and things I try I
really
the phrase set myself in situations so I
think that goes to the balance we are
still haven't teased apart about what is
the environment responsible for and what
are you responsible for right so like
what I like about that is it's not like
all you or all the environment it's not
that the item is opie it's not that you
suck at the game it's that there's a
there's an environment person
interaction and the better you set that
up the more likely you are the more
optimistic it sounds like you're gonna
feel so we can get to that maybe next
time better and ah see next time yeah
it's pretty much the same what everyone
else said but the one thing I'd want to
go in tomorrow's isolation okay it's
definitely a big thing for me what about
what the other people said kind of
resonates with you just being able to
bounce off ideas and how are we all same
in different aspects okay thanks for
sure and lotus-eyed say that like it's
really reassuring to hear that whenever
I fall into a cycle of feeling all these
negative thoughts and feeling very
pessimistic and not wanting to camera
fed I don't have to leap out of the bed
immediately and try to just you know man
up and like take it all head-on it's
okay to sort of take it one step at a
time and you know all of this socially
I'm gonna get a sauce with dissipate and
maybe I'll start feeling better over
time it's not some instant
transformation yeah very well set I
think like change in growth and progress
is not like I think the other thing that
I'm glad Lotus it sounds like you're
giving yourself a lot of time right so
that's the other big thing which I love
it if you guys could take aways that
give yourselves time to build the life
that you want it's not like you're gonna
switch majors and you're gonna be happy
it's it's like exactly what rune said
that he made music and it was actually
shitty it was like painful and uncertain
and weird and he stuck with it he he
held on to not held on
he listened to his inspiration and I
think each and every one of you has
something that like has inspires you as
well it's just you've been taught this
formula for success that has taught you
to not listen to that part of yourself
but we live in a world where video games
are the dominant form of entertainment
they've passed everything else right and
like that's actually really cool like
I'm thrilled about that I'm thrilled
that we live in a world where there are
indie game studios that can build games
that I like to play like really really
remote games that like most people would
not care about and we live in a world
where more people are writing than ever
we live in a world where with things
like Spotify I can actually listen to
runes music if he wants to upload it
right we live in a world where someone
made the you know that the hog the [ __ ]
pong right in like like just think about
this for a second the person who made
the [ __ ] COG song is probably [ __ ]
depressed and isolated in a Doomer but
they had a flash of inspiration and they
created something beautiful bro get them
in here or they a dude it's but just
think about this this is coming from our
community it's coming from you guys and
like can't you see that no matter how
depressed or down that person is they've
created something that is truly
beautiful and has brought a smile and
joy to thousands of people beautiful and
it's like 56 seconds of awfulness
but it's so wonderful I'm equal parts
mortified and flattered I think goes the
intention right like my kids are gonna
like hear that one day like can you guys
think about the amount of dad
embarrassment like once my kid is gonna
go to school at the age of 15 and one of
their friends is gonna play that on
their phone it's terrifying anyway so
listen guys I I really loved talking to
y'all I you know I clearly I feel like
we have more to
hopefully this was helpful in some way
and and I really appreciate you guys
coming on and and you know dealing with
your own sense of senses of anxiety or
embarrassment about talking about this
kind of stuff I really commend you guys
for doing this I'm sure other people are
gonna find it very very helpful I
certainly learned a lot and I hope to
learn more and I hope I'll be able to
help you guys more because I mean I
don't think we're done I haven't fixed
y'all yet I don't think you guys are
fixed but I really hope that you guys
are able to sort of at least take one
step forward and then we can do this
again sometime so thank you very much
thank you thank you men take care peace
yeah all right folks that was
enlightening song linked in discord oh
god okay so I got a run so just a couple
of reminders so first of all thank you
guys very much for all of the sobs
donations and even like twitch crimes
and stuff stuff all that stuff is very
very helpful depending on what Co vyd
does to the US and if we're on lockdown
I'm gonna try to focus on like if I if I
stop seeing patients I'm gonna try to
focus on you know building content for
healthy gamers so thank you guys for
donating and stuff and subscribing
because that's we've got some funds now
so we can try to build some of that
stuff